>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So let me
talk about what we're gonna be actually
building here.
So we're gonna go down and we're gonna
talk about all the different components of
ASP.NET Core, at least the ones that I
use 99% of the time when I'm developing.
We're gonna start by building a simple
web API that allows us to manage
a list of employees in memory.
And by the end, you'll be able to take
that and we'll actually have a database,
and we'll have a serious set of APIs and
tests that you can use as a blueprint for
creating other apps.
If you're so inclined, you can go
clone this repo and follow along.
Everything that you see is
additive to the previous lesson.
So let me give you an example.
As we're going through two,
writing our first tests, for
example we'll be taking a base solution
and we'll be adding to it as time goes on.
And then at the end, the end product for
that will be the next exercise.
So you can see a completed
solution here by peeking ahead and
looking at 2D for instance.
So all of the tests will be in this one.
So you'll be able to follow along,
type along as I go, and
you'll see exactly what I'm doing.
The documentation that you have
kind of takes you step by step, and
I'll explain some of my
thought process along the way.
The final solution here is the 4Z and it
has kind of everything that I completed,
plus a couple of extra things,
which we'll touch on at the end.
And then the link in this repo does
link back to the documentation if you so
choose.
Let's start by building TheEmployeeAPI.
That is gonna be the API that
we are going to build on, so
I'm going to say dotnet new webapi,
TheEmployeeAPI.
All right, in the Employee API,
you're gonna see pretty much
exactly the same as we had before.
It gives you that general blueprint,
that weather forecast, but
we're gonna start by
deleting some of this stuff.
We don't need the weather forecast.
We do need the app.Run,
so we'll keep that.
We don't need this record type.
We don't need the summaries.
So this is what you'll be left with.
So let me talk about minimal APIs.
So the weather forecast example
is what's known as a minimal API.
It's a relatively new feature in
.NET that allows you to define
API endpoints right here where
you define your middleware.
So I wanna talk about what
the actual API looks like.
So we saw MapGet,
you'll see that if we go here,
we'll see that there are actually two
types of arguments to this function.
So what we have is we've got our pattern.
So we'll say employees for now, and then
you'll see that we can give it a delegate,
AKA any old function, or
we can give it a request delegate.
So a request delegate is pretty
much give me the raw context and
just handle it as you see fit.
So it looks a little bit like this.
So there's the argument goes into
get that lambda and you can see that
if you want to, you can just handle
the request in a very raw sense.
So you can read the items,
you can read the headers directly.
We won't be using this one.
We won't be writing raw, we're gonna be
using ASP net core framework as intended,
as a high level framework.
So we're not gonna be
using that very much.
What we will be using, however,
is the delegate one where we pass
in pretty much any old function.
Before we get into that, though,
we do need to create our employee class.
So I'm gonna go ahead and go here,
and I'm gonna go to employee.cs and
this is gonna be the holder.
So this is the employee API, and
we wanna return some employees.
So we're gonna say public class employee,
and we're gonna say prop.
So I put prop and then I hit tab,
which is just basically a shortcut for
give me a property.
I'm gonna keep it as an int, and
I'm gonna give it an Id, and
then I'm going to tab away.
An integer Id is a pretty typical thing
used in database systems to indicate that
this is a unique record.
So we're gonna be talking
to a database directly, so
we know that we're gonna
need an employee Id.
And then I'm gonna give it a FirstName,
tab out, and then prop string LastName.
So you'll notice right away that the
compiler is complaining about something.
You'll see these squiggly lines, and
it says non-nullable property for
FirstName must contain a non null
value when exiting constructor.
That's because we have nullability on.
So what we can do is we could handle
this by adding a question mark to
say that this could be a null type.
But in reality, we're trying to model
how employees are in the real world,
we want this to be a real model
at least as much as we can.
And we know that employees,
at the very least, have to have a name.
So we're gonna go ahead and
use the required keyword here for now,
and that will make that go away.
By the way, I do wanna talk
a little bit about nullability, so
we're gonna use nullability
in this project.
Lots of real world projects that
already exist can't really go back and
add nullability.
At least not without spending a huge
amount of time and money, and we're paid
to ship features, so usually those win
out over making refactors like that.
But if you're starting
with a greenfield project,
I highly recommend that you use
nullability, which is to say that
our reference types are marked as
either nullable or not nullable.
In this case, these are required so
our reference type, our string,
we wanna mark that as required.
And the compiler will help us along
the way to say, the editor will give
us squiggly lines and it will tell
us that, hey, you can't do this.
I'm gonna do one thing here real quick.
I'm gonna take this a step further.
I think if you enable nullability,
it's my belief that you should
also treat warnings as errors.
Because right now the way it sits,
the squiggly line is just
gonna complain at you.
It's just a warning, but
your solution will still run.
But we're gonna get some extra safety
here because this is a new project.
So I'm gonna say true, and
I'm gonna say TreatWarningsAsErrors,
close that up, close that.
And now you see down here that our
warning, what would previously
run is now showing a nice red X to say,
hey, you can't do this.
Now, it's a red squiggly,
it's angry, angry squiggly.
So we're gonna give it that required
property, get it to stop complaining.